Thanks, Jason and thank you all for joining us. We are off to a great start this year and we are proud of our work this quarter. We entered our fourth international market with our launch in the UK, built a new wave for sellers and chip-and-PIN countries to accept payments and added more industry-specific features for our sellers.

A lot of this progress stems from our work on integration which I have mentioned is an area of focus for us this year. We placed a lot of emphasis on integration, because of tools that work seamlessly together, create a better experience for our customers. And we hear from our sellers that the cohesiveness of our services is why so many sellers choose Square to start their businesses and stay with us as they grow. For example, this focus enabled us to launch Square in the UK with what was by far our biggest product launch in the new country to-date. We launched with payments and point-of-sale, but also with invoices, employee and location management, analytics, customer directory, integrations with third-party apps and our Build with Square APIs.

Our integration of hardware and software also allows us to address market needs in innovative ways. For countries such as the UK and Australia, we needed to enable acceptance of payments that use PINs to authenticate chip card transactions. We invented a new secure way to enter PINs into the Square app on a mobile device, eliminating the need for expensive hardware PIN pads. We will continue to work alongside industry partners to make card acceptance more accessible for businesses of all sizes. We are also working to integrate Caviar with Square and expand Caviar from a food delivery service to a food ordering platform. For example, we now use technology from Square Cash to complete delivery payouts to all new Caviar careers. Square’s expertise in payments, point-of-sale and order management sets Caviar apart from other food delivery services and Caviar helps Square reach more restaurants, which is a key vertical for us.

Thanks, Jason and thank you all for joining us. We are off to a great start this year and we are proud of our work this quarter. We entered our fourth international market with our launch in the UK, built a new wave for sellers and chip-and-PIN countries to accept payments and added more industry-specific features for our sellers.

A lot of this progress stems from our work on integration which I have mentioned is an area of focus for us this year. We placed a lot of emphasis on integration, because of tools that work seamlessly together, create a better experience for our customers. And we hear from our sellers that the cohesiveness of our services is why so many sellers choose Square to start their businesses and stay with us as they grow. For example, this focus enabled us to launch Square in the UK with what was by far our biggest product launch in the new country to-date. We launched with payments and point-of-sale, but also with invoices, employee and location management, analytics, customer directory, integrations with third-party apps and our Build with Square APIs.

Our integration of hardware and software also allows us to address market needs in innovative ways. For countries such as the UK and Australia, we needed to enable acceptance of payments that use PINs to authenticate chip card transactions. We invented a new secure way to enter PINs into the Square app on a mobile device, eliminating the need for expensive hardware PIN pads. We will continue to work alongside industry partners to make card acceptance more accessible for businesses of all sizes. We are also working to integrate Caviar with Square and expand Caviar from a food delivery service to a food ordering platform. For example, we now use technology from Square Cash to complete delivery payouts to all new Caviar careers. Square’s expertise in payments, point-of-sale and order management sets Caviar apart from other food delivery services and Caviar helps Square reach more restaurants, which is a key vertical for us.

Awesome. All right. How's everyone doing? A little bit more energy now. Sorry, those are really quite beginning to stick. We don't mean it to feel like a somber event here. It's really, really great that you're all here. First, I just want to say – express a lot of gratitude for all of your support as shareholders, means a lot to us, and we definitely feel the support and the energy. It's also really great that you're all here in our headquarters in San Francisco. It means a lot that we can all bring you to the place where we do our work and to share a little bit of that as well. This is our fourth Annual Shareholders Meeting and the first time we've actually had it in our office. So thank you so much for taking the time to be with us today.

I want to introduce you to two of my colleagues: Anthony Noto, our COO and CFO; and Vijaya Gadde, our GC, will both be making presentations today. But we want to focus the majority of our time going through what is ahead for us and what we're excited about. Before we do that, I do want to call out our board member and executive chairman, Omid. Omid, can you stand up for a minute?

Omid has been extremely helpful for us.


It's funny, every time he enters in a room, he gets a round of applause as well. I never get that for myself, but he gets it all the time. So Omid has been a rock for us and just his expertise and experience in our field and technology, has been extremely helpful for us, so really great that you all get to meet him. Hopefully, you get to have a conversation with him.

And then I also want to say thank you to one of our board members who's leaving us after eight years of service, Peter Fenton. He is not here. He has already left. But eight years is a long time, and Peter has been amazing for us. He has a deep understanding of technologies and companies, and he will remain a friend and adviser to the company.

So, on we go. We have a deeply purpose-driven organization. We are focused on serving one job, and that is answering that one fundamental human question that we have every single day, every moment of every day, which is what's happening, what's going on, and what do people think about it? We want Twitter to be the first answer. We believe that we serve that extremely well and that we've served that for 11 years. Another way to say this is news and commentary, news and talk. When people who are really good at using Twitter talk about Twitter, they say one thing that's consistent, which is they get all their news from it.



My focus is on interim, and my focus is on making sure we continue our momentum around all of our products and initiatives. And that we continue our pace of delivery and facilitating a smooth transition as the board conducts a search for a permanent CEO. We do have a search committee comprised of Peter Currie, Peter Fenton, and our cofounder Evan Williams, and we're going to take the time to pick and choose the right CEO for the company. I'm not focused on that question at all. I'm focused on making sure we continue our momentum and to amplify what we're doing.

 I'm coming into the company as interim CEO with a strategy and a direction that Dick's set forth with his team, and I believe in that. So I don't consider it founder and nonfounder — it's really about the direction, and I am extremely confident in it.


You know, I haven’t always made the connection, but it was a magic moment at the company when you—we were working on the system for about two weeks, and when you first get to use it, and you first get to feel it, it just feels like electricity, and it’s something that kind of makes all the hard work worth it in an instant.


 For my part, I was always obsessed and interested in maps and how cities work. I used to study them when I was a kid, and just look at them and wonder what was happening in a particular part of a city, or a region, or around the block. What if you could actually see that live? My parents had a CB radio and a police scanner, and you would actually hear what was happening in the city from taxi cabs to fire trucks to police cars, ambulances, and they would always report where they were and what they were doing, so you could actually listen to a police car saying that something is happening at 5th and Broadway. We’re investigating. We’re going over to 6th and John, and we’ll be there in 15 minutes. If you take those two end points, you could actually plot them. You could point all the activity in a map that’s actually happening in the city, and I just thought that idea was so fascinating. I taught myself as much programming as necessary to actually make that work on my computer. Little by little, I got more of these visualizations of the city, and I got into dispatch when I was about 17, and eventually moved to New York and worked for the biggest dispatch firm in the world.



Bike dispatch and black cars and general delivery. Little by little, I had all this information about what was actually happening in New York City, which was an amazing feeling just to see the city unfold live right before my eyes. It took a while to realize that I was missing a big part of the city, which were the people. Where were they? What were they doing? What if you could build a technology to actually enable them to just simply report where they were and what they were doing, what’s happening around them? I tried to make that system in 2001 with my first Blackberry, which was a Blackberry 950 e-mail pager, and it just wasn’t the right time, not the right technology. In 2006, SMS started getting really big in the United States. I had a great team around me. I was working at a company called Odeo, which was a podcasting company. Twitter was never started as a company. It was started as an idea that grew out of a failed company, a failed startup. We built the system that allowed people just to report what they were doing and what was happening around them from their mobile phone, from SMS. We built it in two weeks and then sent that first tweet, and it took off.


I mean it really surprises me every day from—you know, I think the first real catalyzing moment for me was when I was in the office on a Saturday, and my phone buzzed, and it was a tweet, and it said simply, “Earthquake.” Immediately after that I actually felt the tremors in San Francisco. The phone kept buzzing, and there was earthquake, earthquake, earthquake. I think it’s epicentered out of Berkeley. I think it’s epicentered out of Richmond. I think it’s a 4.7. Then very, very quickly, that speculation and just that shared experience went down to fact when the USGS reported that it was a 3.7 epicentered out of Richmond. What was amazing about that is I was experiencing something in the world, and immediately I felt comforted, because it was obvious that other people were experiencing the same thing. I thought, wow, the world is so small. You can actually—just by having that shared sensation that shared experience, you all feel like you’re all in this together.


Well, Square is seen as a little tiny “dongle” that you plug into a mobile phone to enable you to accept credit cards, and a lot of people just stop there when they consider what we’re doing. What was interesting about what we did five years ago when we built the company and built the product was my cofounder Jim McKelvey is a glass artist, and he was trying to sell a piece of glass, and someone wanted to us their credit card to pay for it, and he couldn’t accept it. He never went to the bank to get a merchant account. It was just too expensive and too complicated to even think about. He just wanted to sell his piece of glass art. What we recognized was there was this real opportunity in the fact that people were losing sales because they couldn’t accept a device that more and more people had in their pocket, which was a plastic card, whether it be a credit card, a debit card, or a prepaid card. The most critical thing we did immediately was just enable them to accept every sale. As we’ve grown and as we’ve watched our sellers over the past five years, we’ve realized it’s not just important to be able to accept that form of payment, but actually account for one’s entire business, actually build tools to make the running of the business even easier. Little by little we’ve added more features and services that address any business’s top three issues, no matter how big you are. You could be a Facebook or a Twitter, or even a flower cart, which is just operated by one person. You need three things fundamentally. Number one is access to capital. You need to have money to grow your business and to start your business. Number two is you need to find customers, and number three is you need to retain those customers. That’s it. So we see our mission and our role as providing solutions for all three of those, and we’ve launched products over the five years to do just that.




It’s extremely important because money and revenue is the oxygen to actually continue growing the business, and you need that oxygen to live. It’s not something that we think about every single day. I don’t think about all the times that I’m breathing. I know that it’s necessary to survival. I know it’s necessary to sustaining what I want to do in the world, so we see making money and revenue in the same way. But at the same time, we’re making a bet constantly with ourselves that in order to have an opportunity to really grow and sustain, we need to build the network. You take investment in order to have the time to make that bet, to hold your breath a little bit while you build that network out, and then that oxygen comes in to sustain the company.



The interesting thing about entrepreneurship to me is a lot of people think about that word, and they assume that it means to start a business. The definition of entrepreneurship is actually taking on significant risk, usually financial, in order to build something. That means that anyone can really take on an entrepreneurial attitude. An entrepreneur does not necessarily create a business. It’s just a very—it’s a very bold attitude of taking on risk because you really want to see something in the world. What that means is that when you have a clear vision of what you want to see in the world and what you want to use in the world, you do whatever it takes to make it real, right? For me, to make that idea real of being able to see the city around me through police cars and ambulances and taxi cabs, I had to learn how to program. The next step around that was encouraging and attracting other programmers to help me. Suddenly you have a team, and you need to coordinate that team. Then someone has to actually be accountable to the decisions the team makes, and that leads into more leadership, and that leads into what we call management. So little by little, you attack the next most critical thing, and you learn the next most critical thing to make the idea thrive and to sustain what you’re building. It’s something that—you know, I didn’t wake up thinking I really want to build a business. I really want to be a CEO. I really want to found companies or be a leader. I woke up thinking I want to see this in the world, and what do I need to learn, and what do I need to do to make it real? And not just make it real, to make it thrive and make it something that everyone in the world could potentially use. That requires scale, and that requires thinking about teams. The most efficient means of doing that today, in our day and age, is building a company around it, so that’s what I learned how to do.






I mean it goes back to learning around the decisions you make, but absolutely. When we started Square, one of the first things I built and wrote in the company was around analytics, instrumentation. I wrote some code to actually show everything that was happening with our service and more in the company. The reason why is because in the early days of Twitter we just did not put an emphasis on that. We were flying blind, and we were flying the system blind. When you don’t know how fast you’re going or how high you are, you will crash. We saw so many crashes in the early days of Twitter, because we just did not have instrumentation, and it led to a lot of speculation around what the problem was and how to fix it. That led to a lot of arguments and a lot of miscommunication, and a lot of contention. Just by showing what we’re doing constantly and pointing back to the data and pointing back to how things are going, it eases communication, and it eases the work environment, and that’s been critical within Square, given that we are moving people’s money around. If we go down, if we’re not available, if we’re confusing, we’re losing their money, and we’re losing them business, and we just won’t allow ourselves to do that.






Technology—and that’s a word that becomes this very abstract concept. Ultimately to me it means a tool, a very simple tool that saves people time and allows them to work more efficiently and gives them time back to focus on what’s most meaningful. I think the majority of technologies today, and the majority of tools, point to a world that wants to be more global and more unified, and closer and faster. We see it in communication, and we see it in commerce. I think it’s the role of government to make sure that we’re balancing those desires with the practicalities of the day and encouraging more positive motion forward.

He did, and it was another one of those magic moments when the boundaries that we’ve put up in the world just eroded. I was thrilled and humbled to be able to even ask that question, and to get a response. He said he’s working on it. There’s a lot to untie there, and there’s a lot to move, but that is the intention. It’s up to the people of his nation and the world to hold him accountable to moving that forward.

 It’s a complicated question because there are many different answers to that. If you go to the very, very bottom of the line, a cash register, you can buy one from Sharp, Panasonic for $300 dollars to $600 dollars. These are unfortunately calculators on top of cash boxes. When you start getting analytics, when you start getting into some of the features that we have built into the software, integrated cards swipes, you are talking more than $5,000 and close to $10,000 dollars. That usually includes a two-year lease or a two-year agreement for service.


We are optimizing for growth. We are optimizing to appeal to more merchants, as we did with the card reader. We see this is as another door we opened to another class of merchants.

It says that Square grows with our customers. When we started the company it was always about building a general utility that could scale from the smallest individual to the largest entity in the world. This is definitely moving up. But there is a nice path. I can start my business, making cupcakes and start with the reader and an iPod touch. Then I can get a cart, or I can get retail space in a mall and have a solution there as well. I can add as much as I need. If I need a receipt printer, I can add that; if I need a cash register, I can add that.


We believe in this perfect marrying of software and hardware. With a lot of those solutions today, you do have a Square card reader hanging off the iPad. One of the benefits of the longer track (for swiping cards) is that you don’t have to think about it. When you are trying to move a bunch of people through your line, you need something different.


People have always surprised me in the ways they find to use Square. I think we’ll be surprised. I don’t think there’s any limit to this. You could see this with an individual, and we could see it at large institutions.

We have been talking to them about it. We’re excited about it, they’re excited about it.

One of the biggest things that has helped me is learning how to become a better storyteller and the power of a story. And
by this, I mean if you want to build a product and you want to build a product that is relevant to folks, you need to put yourself in
their shoes and you need to write a story from their side. So, we spend a lot of time writing what's called user narratives of this
user or this person. He is in the middle of Chicago and they go to a coffee store in the middle of Chicago. This is the
experience they're going to have. It reads like a play. It's really, really beautiful. If you do that story well, then all of the
prioritization, all of the product, all of the design and all the coordination that you need to do with these products just falls out
naturally because you can edit the story and everyone can relate to the story from all levels of the organization, engineers to
operations to support to designers to the business side of the house. So, that story is very, very important for us. And really
constantly considering the story and what new twists and elements we need to add to the story are a pretty big deal for us as
well.
 And we want to tell an epic story. We want to solve a really big problem. We don't want to have a bunch of short stories
strung together. We want one epic cohesive story that we tell the world. And both Twitter and Square are driving towards this
goal.




