  Well, it seems to be unique to America, the climate skeptic.  [LAUGHTER] As America’s got quite a few things unique things about it at the moment, but the climate change is one of those things.  Since now you have the Republicans running America, what we, as business leaders, are trying to do is to get the message across to those skeptics that even if you are a skeptic, it makes sense for America and the rest of the world to be powered by clean energy.

I mean, I think even the biggest climate skeptic must like their children to breathe clean air.  So if we can power the world by the sun, and by wind, and by wonderful innovations in batteries, we’re going to create hundreds of thousands, millions of jobs.  We’re going to have clean air, and we’ll have a fuel price, energy price, globally, which is about half what the current energy price is.  And it will be like that forever.  Whereas if we don’t invest in clean energy, and get out there and create those millions of jobs, fuel prices could be back up at $150 a barrel again.  And in my opinion, we’ll be polluting and damaging the world we live in as well.
Well, the United States will be left way behind if it doesn’t keep the momentum going.  I mean, China has got a clean-energy revolution going on.  I mean, millions of jobs have been created in the clean energy.  Europe’s got a clean-energy revolution going on.  South America’s got a clean-energy revolution going on.  And fortunately, in America, 95% of business leaders believe in climate change, and they want to do something about it.  Most of the oil companies in America are investing heavily in technology that will be the technology of the future, when the demand for oil disappears.

So it’s not going to be as easy, obviously, if you’ve got an administration that puts barriers up rather than encouraging it.  You know, but I think we’ve got to make it happen.  And we’ve got to get to the that carbon neutrality by 2050.  One interesting thing that I learnt yesterday, in one of the TED Talks, James Hansen came up with this brilliant idea a few years ago.  And that was put a tax on carbon, but give 100% of that tax back to people in their wage packets, and equally, right across the board.

There’s a group of Republicans, George Schultz and others, who have taken up that idea, and are pushing the White House right now to accept it.  And if you can create a differential between carbon and clean energy, then it just gives the clean-energy revolution, I think, a change to move even quicker, and even more jobs to be created.
 think there could be a place if you think that, politically, it could ever get through.  I think that it’s unlikely that, politically, it will ever get.  Therefore, I think, fortunately, there’s enough—I mean, the price of solar has come down so dramatically.  The price of wind is coming down so dramatically.  The price of batteries are coming down dramatically.  And new innovations; we’re working with Bill Gates on a breakthrough energy coalition, looking at new innovations.

There are so many exciting new innovations coming through.  So I think some of these things have a better change, I think, than nuclear.  Although, nuclear, arguably, needs to be a part of the equations.
 You know, longitude, latitude was only discovered because of a prize.  One of the reasons we’re going to space is because of X Prize and SpaceShipOne.  So prizes can have a fantastic, catalyzing effect.  We set up the Virgin Earth prize, a $25 million prize, to see if anybody could come up with a way of extracting carbon out of the earth’s atmosphere.  And we wanted them to be able to extract enough carbon that would basically solve the problem.

It was a big task, but just to get people thinking.  A lot of people have put their mind to it.  We’ve got 10 organizations that we’ve watching closely.  Nobody has come up with the winning formula yet.  It took 75 years for the longitude prize to be won.  Hopefully, it will take a lot less.  But in the meantime, I mean, this prize is there in case everything else fails.  In the meantime, I think we’ve just got to get on, and do the nuts and bolts of getting clean energy out there.

There are many new technologies that are being developed.  Like in Manchester University, there were two professors that won the prize for inventing something called “graphene.”  We built a plane a few years ago called the “Virgin Atlantic GlobalFlyer,” 100% out of carbon fiber, to show Boeing and Airbus that carbon fiber should be part of the mix for aeroplanes.  When it successfully flew nonstop around the world, with Steve Fossett piloting it, Airbus came to where we had built it.  I think partly as a result of that and other things, you’ve got the 787.  You’ve got the A350 planes, which are 50, 60% carbon fiber.  That means we’re saving 20% fuel burn on them.

We’re now working with Manchester University and others on graphene.  Graphene is maybe nine times lighter than carbon fiber.  It’s maybe nine times strong, very roughly, than carbon fiber.  You can’t use it in quite the same way as carbon fiber, because it’s incredibly thin.  But you can mix it into the mix.  And so, future planes, hopefully, will then be another big step forward to the much lighter .

So, you know, lots and lots of these things are going on around the world, which, hopefully, if every country works hard towards fulfilling them, we will get there.

 I can’t think of anything more stupid than to talk about bringing coal back.  [LAUGHTER] Actually, there are some things which are even more stupid, but anyway.  I mean, first of all, digging coal is a pretty horrible job.  It kills a lot of people that work in coal mines.  Most countries have got rid of that now.  The people who were digging coal in coal mines are now working, you know, putting solar panels on peoples’ roofs.  You know, working on creating windmills.  A whole new revolution of new jobs is being created.

America should be setting an example to other countries that are still reliant on coal, to show that you don’t have to be reliant on coal anymore.  Fortunately, China was new coal-power station every week, and now moving rapidly towards clean energy.  They have dirty energy in their face.  I mean, the coal, if you go into Beijing and other places, you can hardly see.  So they have another incentive as well to
Yeah.  No, China is definitely leading the clean energy revolution today.  They’ve already, I would say, overtaken America.  And the reason that the clean-energy revolution is really taking off now is the price they’ve managed to drive solar panels down.  I think on some of the more technical things, like battery power, America is still ahead, and Europe.  But as far as just replacing dirty energy, China, I would say, is moving the quickest.
Generally speaking, the Earth is a pretty good place to be, and we’ve got to make sure that we keep it a good place to be, and make it an even better place to be.  I mean, if you look at the last six decades, and study the last six decades, every decade has got better, and better, and better; whether it’s famine; whether it’s poverty; even wars.  Pretty well everything has got better.  Obviously, Syria has been the most ghastly blight there.

But by and large, things have got better.  You wouldn’t believe it if you saw 24-hour news, but things have got better.  Gay rights in America.  Things have got better.  Other countries, there’s a lot of work still to do.

So I don’t think we need to all go live on the moon or Mars.  [LAUGHTER] And they’re not very hospitable places.  But I do think that space can play, and already has played, a massive, positive role back here on Earth.  I mean, we’re involved in putting a big array of satellites around the Earth, which will continue to make a big difference.  There are still 4.5 billion people who don’t have internet or Wi-Fi access.  They are at a big disadvantage to those of us who do.  And a lot of those people don’t even have the access to telephones as well, the education that you get through the internet, and other things.

I think that people should, if they want, be able to go to space, and become astronauts, and marvel back at the wonderful world we live in
 Anyway, it has to start somewhere.  Like the aviation travel was the equivalent price in the 1920s.  And it will come down quite a lot in the years to come.  I think through space travel, we’re going to get point-to-point travel at much quicker speeds.  We’re going to get almost completely environmentally friendly travel.  There’s a whole lot of breakthroughs I think that which will take place.  One day we will have a Virgin Hotel in space.  It’s something that I know my children are looking forward to.  I hope we can hurry up and so I can look forward to it.
Yeah.  You know, we’ve got 800 astronauts signed up to go to space.  Their commitment has helped us keep our commitment to it.  We’ve got 650 wonderful engineers, here in the states, working on it.  And space is becoming a big, new industry in America.  You’ve got Elon, Jeff Bezos, who I think has something to do with a company
Yeah.  So you’ve got three people who really are putting a lot of energy, and time, and effort into it.  And I think we’ll hopefully create some magic through it.
  I think it wouldn’t have happened on a Virgin flight.  [LAUGHTER] [APPLAUSE] The whole reason that Virgin set up 33 years ago with Virgin Atlantic was because airline travel was pretty dire.  The way that people were treated, it was not great.  We set up Virgin Atlantic just with one secondhand 747, taking on TWA, and Pan Am, and Air Florida, and People Express.
I mention those four because these, between them, had something like 800 planes.  And we had one plane.  All of those airlines have disappeared.  The reason they disappeared was they didn’t look after the people who traveled on them.  They got replaced by United, and American, and others.  Those airlines have been bust three or four times.  And in America, you have something called “Chapter 11,” which is great.  [LAUGHTER] If your management mess up, they just then get rid of all their creditors, and they start all over again.
 In Britain, if we messed up, you know, we’re like a tree.  If a tree dies, we’re dead.  [LAUGHTER] We leave for new, young saplings to grow.  So we had to look after our passengers.  We can’t afford to go into Chapter 11.  We can’t’ afford to go bankrupt.  You know, we have to be great.  And it’s a lot more fun running an airline that has people who smile and are friendly to their passengers, rather than the reverse.
It broke my heart too.  You have this rather strange situation in America that British people, we can own banks in America.  We can own spaceship companies in America.  We can own hospitals in America.  We can own lots of things, but we’re not allowed to own an airline.

And this has been a really clever move by the big airlines to try to protect their patch, and they’ve managed to lobby and fight and keep a situation where only people who—with American passports can own American airlines.  And so, when we set up Virgin America, we had to bring in venture capital organizations to own it, and we were a minority shareholder, and sadly, they had an offer they couldn’t refuse, and they sold it.
 The exciting thing about starting a company or starting an airline is you take out a big blank sheet of paper, and you think—or this is what you should do, I think, and you’re painting a—you’re painting a painting; you’re trying to get every little single thing right on that canvas, and obviously, number one priority is you get the friendliest, best people to work within this canvas, work within your airline.

But then, every little detail must be right, so when you walk on, you must feel—into an airline, you must feel, wow, I feel at home, I feel welcome.  And the quality of the seats, everything must be right, and I think that’s what the team at Virgin America achieved, but anyway, what’s the space on that?  We’re not
Well, I suppose—I mean, I started in business when I was 15, so I’ve been 50 years of traveling the world, and seeing—learning about what’s going on in the world, and seeing a lot of things that are wrong in the world that I feel need to be fixed.  One of the things that took place 40-odd years ago was the infamous war on drugs, a similar war that took place on the war on alcohol back in the ‘20s here in America.  And that war has done untold damage on a global basis, because the war started in America, but America has imposed their will on the rest of the world.  And it’s resulted in hundreds of thousands of people being incarcerated in America, mainly minority groups.  It’s resulted in people who have drugs problems not being able to come and get help.  And so, with this particular problem, we’ve got involved with something called the global drug commission, which is 15 ex-presidents, Kofi Annan, and myself, to try to get governments to change their approach and treat drugs as a health problem, not a criminal problem.

And to experiment with new approaches.  We’ve welcomed the states in America that have legalized; we’ve welcomed the states that have set up medical marijuana centers, and we pray that this new administration does not interfere, and just lets this experiment continue, because the experiment is working.  It’s not resulting in thousands more people taking drugs, and in fact, with the medical marijuana centers, it’s actually helping a lot of people who are benefitting from them.
 I would say that they need to do what the global drug commission did; they need to look at example closely about—I mean, look at Portugal.  They had a massive heroin problem the turn of the century.  And the president of Portugal went on television, said, “Nobody is ever going to prison ever again for taking drugs, we’re going to help.  We’re going to sit down and help you with heroin.  We’re going to have places you can come to get your heroin fix.  We’re going to give you clean needles.  We’re going to make sure you don’t overdose.  We’re going to make sure you don’t catch Hepatitis C or HIV.  And when you’re ready, we’re going to help you get into a clinic and ween you off.”

And within very short period of time, the heroin problem had disappeared from Portugal.  America has now got a big heroin problem.  That is the way to deal with it; not to leave these people in this sort of shady underworld, having to go and break and enter into people’s homes to get their fix.  People who are addicted to heroin, generally speaking, want to get off it.  They want help, and you can’t leave them to the underworld.
Yes, I suspect we agree on a lot of things, and we had—that was a first time of really getting to know each other well, and whether it was death penalty reform or climate change or pretty well all areas, I would say, we’re on the same page.  And yeah, it was a privilege spending time with him.  I went that night to—I’ll tell a story against myself.  I went that night to his birthday party at the White House, and I was walking in with a friend, and there was a picture of him with this lovely little girl, sitting next to him, and I said to my friend, “Is that his daughter?”  She said, “Richard, his daughter is black.”
 I think we will be working.  We’ve got a foundation that covers many of the areas that he covers and we’ve agreed that the two foundations will overlap on things and work together on things.  And I think he’s in an incredible position globally to make a formidable difference in the years to come, and I think that’s what he wants to do.  So, if we can help in any way, we’ll certainly be there to help.
 It was humiliating.  Well, they—yeah, my only defense was I was learning to do something called foil boarding against him learning to kitesurf.  Foil boarding is very strange; you’re going along on a board, and the board then comes out three foot out of the water, and generally you just end up falling, and I fell a lot.
 I think that—yeah, I mean, look.  There’s nothing he can—when you step down from being Prime Minister or president of a country, I think you’re absolutely right.  The best way of doing it is to—you’ve done your bit, and then you have to hand the keys over for a year or so, and do your best not to interfere.  And it must be very difficult, but I’m sure that’s sensible advice, and it seems to be the way he’s behaving.
Well, my mum tried to teach me how to get over my shyness.  She would shove us on the stage and tell us that shyness was a selfish thing, and you’re thinking of yourself, and you’ve got to get out there and think about other people, and so I think, you know, I’ve hopefully largely overcome it, over the years.  If I’m talking about subjects that I know about, and that maybe that’s why I love to learn about everything that’s going on in the world.  I find it relatively easy, and I’m talking about things you don’t know about, and having to bullshit about things you don’t know about, I find really tough.
 You know, we’re fortunate with the genes.  Now, look, I’m trying not to think about legacy yet, but I love life, I live life to its full every day.  I pinch myself because it’s just such a fascinating journey, and I think we’re—if you get into a position where you can make a difference, then you don’t want to waste that position, so I suppose I spend quite a lot of my time on issues.  If I go back and the last two times I’ve marched—I’ve only marched twice in my life, so far.  I’ve marched against the Vietnamese war when I was a teenager, shouting, “LBJ, LBJ, how many kids did you kill today?”  And I think the Vietnamese marches by young people really helped bring an end to that very unjust war.

I marched against the Iraq war, and then sadly, despite massive marches but maybe not massive enough, that war didn’t—was not stopped.  And climate change is the third time, and just as important, I think, for the world, as those other two are.  And just as important for our grandchildren and great-grandchildren, and so looking forward to tomorrow’s march, and hopefully lots of people will turn up.
Yes, I mean, we’ve set up various not for profit organizations to address some of these issues, so we set up the elders with Nelson Mandela and Kofi Annan and Archbishop Tutu and a number of wonderful ladies like Mary Robinson and so on, to go into conflict regions.  We set up the B team, which is a group of business leaders to—wonderful people like Paul Pullman from Unilever, and Mohammed Younis and others to get out and talk about—and we were all there in force at the Paris talks, going along and seeing the Indian ministers, seeing the Chinese ministers, trying to show them that there’s a business reason why they should support COP 21.

And so, I think a group of business leaders can make a big difference in the world.  And we’re trying to get—you know, we’re setting up a Chinese group and an Indian group, and other groups around the world with like-minded individuals.  And there are a number of organizations like that we set up, which I think can help push some of these issues forward.
 No, look, I care passionately about most things, and some a hell of a lot more than others.  And I’m a good listener.  I just love learning all the time.  I left school at 15, so I’ve spent the rest of my life getting the sort of university education I never had from meeting fascinating people and listening and learning, and then trying to do something about things.
Well, my life has been pure, untouched.  I have two immaculately conceived children.  I’m trying to remember why I said virginity.  But look, my first book was called Losing My Virginity and I’ve spent my life trying things that I knew nothing about.  So, like every business I’ve been into, I knew nothing about the airline business.  I knew nothing about the space business.  I knew nothing about music retailing.  So, I’ve been losing my virginity throughout my life, and learning about things and testing things, and so, yeah, it’s been a good ride.
Yeah, I mean, I’m known as Dr. Yes, and I just love throwing myself into everything.  I find life is a lot more fun when you do that.  It’s got me into a lot of trouble, and a big chunk of my life has been doing big adventures, and I was lucky to come back from them.  So, particularly the ballooning adventures, but some of them were sort of, I suppose you could say, X-rated.  And the other X-rated stuff I won’t go into.  No, sorry.
 And we tried, and we had a lot of fun doing it, and for a while, I thought we were going to succeed, because it really took off like a rocket—well, like somebody else’s rocket, but one day, our rocket—in the UK.  But in the end, they had bigger guns than us, and they came in and crushed us.

I think by being dyslexic, I simplify everything. I calculate everything on the back of an envelope, and if it makes sense I'll do it, and if it doesn't make sense I won't. I don't overcomplicate it. I'll just give you one amusing story: I was having a board meeting and somebody gave me some figures, and I said, 'Well, is that good news or bad news?' And the director said, 'Richard, I don't think you know the difference between net and gross.' And I owned up, I don't. And so he pulled out a piece of paper, and he penciled in a sea and then he penciled in a net, a fishing net in the sea, and he said, 'Well, you know, the fish that are in the net, that's your profit at the end of the year, and what's outside is your turnover.' Sadly, I actually thought it was the other way around; I thought we were doing much better than we were. But ever since then I've been showing off and saying 'net profit' and 'gross profit' ... I suppose the interesting point about all that is it doesn't matter too much, you know. I mean, it's useful to be able to add up and subtract and maybe multiply. And apart from that, you can create an empire with 60,000 employees and find other people to add up the numbers at the end of the year
We don't normally buy other companies or merge with other companies, because you take on a lot of history. Having said that, it would be quite fun to do something with American Airlines. And so, yeah, if anybody from American Airlines is listening, we'd be happy to get your call.
You would need to really go into all the planes; gut them out, you know; get the best interior designers, as you would with a new hotel, to completely refigure them, you know; put in the best leather seats; put in the best entertainment you can; work with the crew to make sure they have the best uniforms, the ones which make them really feel great, and let them decide on what uniforms they want to have; and you know, just surpris[e] people. ...

"Relative to the income you'll get as a result, it's not a huge expense ... and, ultimately, it's the only way to survive. I mean, when we started 30 years ago with one plane flying out of England, there were 15 American carriers that we were competing with: Pan Am, TWA, Eastern, People Express, etc., etc. Every single one of them ... disappeared. And they disappeared because, although we were much smaller than them, their quality was awful
I think that if [a] company's got a great manager at the top, then they can get these issues sorted out. I mean, it's strange because in America you've got fantastic hotels, great restaurants, but the airline industry just has not gone out to make sure that every single person that flies on those planes [gets] a wonderful experience. And the good thing about that is that leaves room for an airline like Virgin America to emerge. And, you know, we did the same thing with Virgin Atlantic when we started 30 years ago with, you know, one plane against British Airways. And the difference there is that actually British Airways did react, and they did start copying what we were doing, and they did improve their game ... And so, you know, because you've got legacy things hanging over you doesn't mean you can't get your act together.
About three or four years ago, at the Clinton Global Initiative, I pledged that 100 percent of any profits we made from our airline businesses we would invest in alternative fuels. And what we've been trying to do is come up with a fuel that we can power our planes by that emits no carbon. ...

"When we did the first test flight on coconut oil, using coconuts and a mixture, you know, there [were] a lot of jokes made. The chairman of British Airways said it was all pie in the sky, etc., etc. But the most important thing in life is just to try these things, and we tried it
You have to go back to thinking: What is a business? A business is people coming up with an idea to make a difference in other people's lives. And throughout my life, I keep on coming across situations where I feel we can do it better than it's being done. You know, for instance, I used to travel on Britain's rail network, and the rail was run down, dilapidated, run by government; and we went in and persuaded them to give a chunk of it to us. And you know, we absolutely transformed it from 8 million passengers a year to, you know, 33 million passengers a year. And so I think we know how to do it.

"I'm inquisitive; I love learning about new things. So, you know, we have ended up with sort of 300 or 400 companies, but we've become a sort of way-of-life brand. ... People think of Virgin — if they hear that Virgin's going into a new area, they know that the quality will be good, that we'll do it in a fun way, that we'll give good value for money. And so it gives us a leg up when we go into a new venture. People already [trust] us, and they'll give us a try and, generally speaking, people seem to like what they find

Too many people are hiding in dark rooms flipping through too many words on big screens. There’s a reason why I avoid boardrooms. I’d rather spend time with people ‘in the field,’ where eye contact, genuine conviction and trustworthiness are in full evidence.
Sadly not, but an important lesson Steve taught today’s business leaders is to express your unflinching commitment to your products and your company. Steve had two valuable communication strengths: obsession over the details and 

Thank you Allan for those kind words and thank you all for coming along today.
I appreciate that at this time of year there are probably a number of Christmas events that hold
a great deal more appeal than hearing me talk about my life as an entrepreneur and
businessman.
I would particularly like to thank Professor Snyder, Robyn Williams and Professor Brown for the
invitation today.
I have been lucky enough to receive a number of awards in my lifetime. It is safe to say that as
a 16-year student who needed to borrow £4 off my mother to launch my first business venture
such awards seemed highly unlikely.
But, then again, at 16 it also seemed highly unlikely that I would have the opportunity to rub
shoulders with a band as great as The Rolling Stones or even fly around the world in my own
jumbo – or nearly around the world in my own hot air balloon for that matter.
I guess it is somewhat ironic that, as someone who never went to university and who even
struggled at high school, I find myself being presented with this award in the grounds of The
University of Sydney. My business or management education has come from trying and
succeeding – and even from trying and failing.
It is also very humbling to read that Nelson Mandela is the Millennium Fellow for the Centre.
Nelson Mandela has achieved so much for the people of South Africa and is such a wonderful
ambassador for his continent that to receive an award from an organisation with which he is
associated is a true honour.
2
It wasn’t until I read that the Centre for the Mind exists to “shatter mindsets and stage-manage
spectacular initiatives” that I understood why I am being presented with this award at all.
After all, the Virgin Group of companies exist to “shatter mindsets” about how customer service
should be delivered and how products need to match consumer demands.
And whether I am driving a tank up to a Coke sign in Times Square, or flying solo around the
world in a contraption floating 60,000 ft above the earth’s surface because of hot air, I guess
that I am always trying to be ‘spectacular’.
So now I understand why I am here.
I appreciate that you may prefer to ask me questions, so I will keep my speech to a minimum
and keep some time up my sleeve at the end.
Alan has asked me to provide you with my thoughts on how creativity has been important in the
growth and success of Virgin and has also, somewhat unkindly, asked me to share my views on
‘What makes a Champion’.
I have always admired champions – whether in the field of sport, science, business or the arts –
who attempt the impossible.
We have all heard countless examples of champions who recount stories of being told by the
establishment or by so-called experts in their field that something can’t be done.
I am sure that Sir Edmund Hillary heard many times, “that mountain can’t be climbed”.
Or when Tiger Woods is told, “no male golfer can win a grand slam” I am absolutely sure that
motivates him to work even harder.
And when Virgin was told that it couldn’t create and operate a profitable trans-Atlantic airline
from scratch, it motivated me to get the airline up and running in just six months – and we
haven’t looked back since.
3
Today, Virgin Atlantic is the second largest long-haul international airline operating services out
of London, flying to 21 destinations all over the world from Shanghai to the Caribbean and soon
Sydney.
Being unafraid of failure is, I believe, one the most important qualities of a champion.
My interest in life comes from setting myself huge, apparently unachievable challenges and
trying to rise above them – an interest that was, perhaps, fuelled by my grandmother telling me
at the age of 99: “You’ve got one go in life, so make the most of it”.
Whether I succeed or fail in meeting the challenge is immaterial – it is the effort and the
opportunity that drives me. I truly believe that through effort and I guess to some extent risk,
success is waiting around the corner regardless.
However, while champions aren’t afraid of failure, they are truly made when they learn the art of
turning failure into success.
The only time I could ever be compared to Johnny Wilkinson is when we were both four and I
hazard a guess that neither of us could kick a football. He is a champion now because he learnt
how to do it.
Innate talent and skill are certainly important. As is hard work and perseverance.
In addition to that, my recipe for success has always been to understand my limitations and to
surround myself with talented and brilliant people that can pick up where I leave off. And, most
importantly, to have fun on the journey.
One definition of a champion, as far as I am concerned, is somebody who can empower
people’s ideas in order to fuel success.
It is no secret that I have always attributed the success of the Virgin Group and its brands to the
people that work for our company. I have always had a policy of hiring good motivators over
good business-people. I always look for executives that put their people first and themselves
last.
4
So, in many ways I believe champions are self-less.
They also are quick to put their faith in others. When a flight attendant approached me
several years ago with an idea to start a wedding business, I told her to go and do it and even
wore a wedding dress to help her promote it.
When Brett Godfrey approached us with a business plan for a low cost Australian airline, written
on the back of a beer coaster, Virgin provided the finance and the optimism and sent him to
Brisbane to get on with the job.
Human intellectual brilliance comes in many forms and a champion knows a brilliant idea
immediately – whether it is theirs or someone else’s.
The mind which can develop life-saving vaccines is very different from the mind which
structures complex financial transactions, yet they are equally complex and amazing in their
own right.
I have always been fascinated by intellectual brilliance in others - whether it be a concert pianist
like Roger Woodward or a military strategist like General Peter Cosgrove or a medical miracle
worker like the late Dr Victor Chang, or even the mental toughness and adaptability of a Steve
Waugh.
Brilliant minds exist to take us forward as a society - they are a leading indicator of our progress
as human beings.
My own formula for success is actually not to rely on any brilliance in my own mind, or at least
not to solely rely on it. I have decided all the way through my life to surround myself with people
I know have that something special within, and to harness that brilliance for my own benefit and
experience.
My business team has always been the best and brightest I could find anywhere in the world,
and my role has simply been to assist them to achieve their potential.
5
Brett Godfrey is a great example of that philosophy. Here was a success story waiting to
happen - a brilliant business mind with a specific interest in customer service. All he needed
was support and financing. That's where we came in.
And that has been the case with many other special minds I have been lucky enough to know.
Even the Sex Pistols were brilliant minds in their own way - people underestimate their ability to
communicate a social message through their music. Virgin saw that they had something special
and decided to back them, and they went on to change the way we looked at rock music.
So a life of being surrounded by brilliant and creative minds is something that has been good to
me. I recommend it as an approach to business, and life in general, because it works.
If I could leave you all with one message today it is that Australia must examine ways to support
brilliance and bring it to the fore - particularly in the realm of business and commerce.
Australia is a country which plays well above its weight in producing brilliant minds. From the
superb research skills of Sir Howard Florey to the creative genius of Baz Luhrmann, Australia
has stunned the world with its contributions to all fields of endeavour.
The great challenge that I can now see for Australia is to harness that brilliance as a force for
good in business.
Can Australia encourage its young people towards a new spirit of entrepreneurialism and the
embracing of risk to create economic benefit for the future?
Can we teach Aussie kids that Brett Godfrey is a good role model - a man who has, through a
simple set of very brilliant ideas first sketched on the back of some beer coasters, created
thousands of jobs for his fellow Australians, and an investment vehicle to create wealth for many
hundreds of thousands of his countrymen.
Can we create an educational and cultural environment where young Australians understand
that it's OK to take a risk and invest in their own enterprise and vision?
6
Can we assist them to create the jobs and wealth of tomorrow?
It's a subject that occupies my mind, and I hope that I can use my ongoing investment in and
love affair with Australia as a way of encouraging that new entrepreneurial spirit.
Before I finish and take any questions you may have, I wanted to touch on the issue of
creativity, especially the role that creativity has had in building the Virgin Group into the success
it is today.
I mentioned Baz Luhrmann before, and I truly do marvel at the creative genius he possesses to
turn the conventional Romeo and Juliet of William Shakespeare into the Romeo and Juliet of
Leonardo Dicaprio and Clare Danes.
While establishing Virgin Records, we witnessed first hand the creativity of Mike Oldfield and
Peter Gabriel, and the unconventional Rolling Stones and The Sex Pistols.
It was during this time that we realised the important counter balance between CREATIVITY
and CONVENTION.
In developing the Virgin business our enemy has always been convention.
At Virgin we firmly believe that convention is the enemy of progress. It stifles creativity and
innovation. It hinders success and destroys a sense of adventure.
However, when it comes to other businesses, we have found that people usually bow to
convention over creativity.



Above all, you should work on building a business you’re proud of. This has always been a motivator for me, from my Student magazine days, through to our latest startups today. I have never gone into any business purely to make money. If money is your only motive, then I believe you shouldn’t launch the business at all.

“Once you know what your own motivations and aspirations are, talk to your employees and colleagues about theirs, if you haven’t already. Then structure their jobs in a way that allows them to tap into this energy, too. With you and your employees approaching your work with renewed energy and commitment, you’ll find that there’s little that you can’t accomplish together.
Well Steven Hawking believes that one day mankind on earth will be destroyed. It could be millions of years. It could be tomorrow. And he said it will either be an asteroid, it could be an experiment that goes wrong which creates disease that wipes out mankind. Whatever. For whatever reason.

So he believes that we should at least populate another planet. And as part of that beginning of that potential dream of his, I mean not a very nice dream the first part, but the second part, Virgin Galactic Airways will be born over the next year or two.

And the initial stage will be to send people in a – almost completely environmentally friendly way by the way, but I’ll talk about that in a minute – into sub orbital space travel. And then from there we will go into orbital space travel. From there we’ll build hotels in space. 

Man’s natural instinct is to keep trying to improve themselves. Our engineers will keep pushing themselves. They're already looking at seeing whether we can’t go from New York to Australia in half an hour by hopping a spaceship out of the earth’s atmosphere and then straight back down again.

And I think that maybe in my lifetime we might achieve that; but definitely I think in my son’s lifetime. And so then we’re looking at giant sailing ships that can be powered by solo that can go off into future galaxies and see what’s going on out there. Anyway, exciting, exciting things to dream about.

